Hey guys, welcome to lecture 34.
In this lecture we're gonna be going
over pivoting and pivot tables.
So we're gonna import numpy as np,
pandas as pd, and
then from pandas we're gonna
import series and data frames.
So the important thing about pivot tables,
they can really depend on what information
you're actually looking for, so if you're
not familiar with pivot tables in general,
we can just come over here to
the pivot table Wikipedia page.
So a lot of times for databases, for
data entry and storage, you're
data's gonna appear in a flat table.
So if we look at this first table example,
you have multiple regions,
east and west, but then you have
multiple entries for each region.
So, for instance, you have the boy and
girl subset of the east and west regions.
And what you wanna first start off with
when you're creating a pivot table, is,
what am I seeking?
So what information do I wanna know.
And that's going to be one of
the most important questions you
can ask yourself when analyzing data,
or just data science in general,
is what information do you
actually want to know?
So in this example,
they wanted to know how many units did we
sell in each region for every ship date.
And so they created this pivot table,
and this pivot table will basically,
sum up all the shipment units for
each date, depending on the region.
So this kind of pivot table can really
depend on what information you want.
So you could have also asked how
many units did you did you sell to
boy versus girls on particular dates.
What was the average price based on
the regions, etcetera, etcetera.
So in order to kinda just see how
to do pivot tables in pandas,
we're gonna create some data to play with.
This data I'm gonna get from using
the panda's testing utility,
and the way I'm gonna do that
is I'm just gonna copy and
paste from one of the I Python
notebooks on the Github.
So it's really outside the course to know,
is framed to know how I made this
state of frame to work with.
We're just using the panda's
testing utility, but
it's outside the scope of the course to
need to know how I created this table.
We're just basically creating
an un pivot function,
which gives us a bit of a sloppy,
flat data table to work with.
So let's go ahead and
look at what the D frame looks like.
Cool, so I have multiple instances
of the variables, A, B and C.
Different values for each one.
And then, different dates for
each one as well.
So again, don't worry about how
I made this data frame, it's
just using the testing utility, but you
won't need to know that for this course.
It's just a convenient way to make
data frames to test certain things.
If you want, you can look in more on the
documentation about utility testing ,but
this lecture's just to show you if
you had a certain data frame and
you wanted to know a certain thing,
how could you make the pivot table for it?
So, this data frame,
we can think about this as stacked.
So note how there's multiple variables and
values for the dates.
And let's pivot the data.
So let's say we wanted to know
the variables, let's say A, B, and C, and
D for particular dates.
What were their values?
So we can go ahead and
say D frame underscore PIV.
So our pivoted data frame,
in order to pivot it,
we just call the pivot
method on that data frame.
And then what we pass is the row and
column indexes, and then,
optionally, a fill value.
So, I'm gonna want my rows to be the date,
so I'll pass that first.
I'm gonna want my columns
to be the variable.
And I'm gonna want my value,
my fill value, to just be the values.
So that's how you do a pivot table,
you decide what you want for
the rows, the columns, and
what you want the fill value to be.
So I can take this stacked data frame and
basically unstack it and pivot it.
So let's go ahead and do that.
And then let's see what it looks like.
Alt + Enter.
All right, cool.
So now I've pivoted this table, and
I can see some of the values for
A, B, C, and D, depending on the date.
So, this is just a general introduction
to pivoting and pivot tables.
It's gonna really depend on what
specific information you wanna know and
how you wanna present it.
But it's good to know that you can easily
pivot data frames, just calling the pivot
method and deciding what you want the row,
column, and values to be.
It's pretty much that simple, and
it's really gonna depend on what your
flat data table,
your stack data table looks like, and
what information you want
to come out with them.
Okay, so that's about it for
pivoting, again,
you don't have to worry about
how I made that data frame.
It's just using some testing utility
that we won't be using in the future.
And next up we're gonna learn how to
find duplicates in data frames, so
if you have duplicate values.
Okay.